.\" Man page for pdfsplit
.TH PDFSPLIT 1 "September 21, 2025" "1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pdfsplit \- Split PDF files into individual pages, ranges, or chunks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfsplit
.I input_pdf
[\fB-p\fR \fIPAGES\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIGRANULARITY\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR] [\fB--prefix\fR \fIPREFIX\fR] [\fB--force\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB--version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpdfsplit\fR is a command-line tool to split PDF files into individual pages, specified page ranges, or chunks of pages with customizable output filenames and directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI input_pdf
Path to the input PDF file (required).
.TP
.BI -p ", " --pages " PAGES"
Specify pages or ranges (e.g., "1,3,5-7,10-" for pages 1, 3, 5-7, and 10 to end).
.TP
.BI -g ", " --granularity " GRANULARITY"
Split into chunks of N pages (default: 1, used if no \fB--pages\fR).
.TP
.BI -d ", " --directory " DIRECTORY"
Output directory (default: current directory).
.TP
.BI --prefix " PREFIX"
Custom filename prefix (default: input PDF filename without extension).
.TP
.B --force
Force overwrite of existing files without prompting.
.TP
.B -q ", " --quiet
Suppress progress bar and non-error output.
.TP
.B --version
Show version (1.0).
.TP
.B -h ", " --help
Show help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Split into single pages:
.RS
.B pdfsplit document.pdf
.RE
.TP
Split into 5-page chunks in output/:
.RS
.B pdfsplit document.pdf -g 5 -d output
.RE
.TP
Split specific pages/ranges:
.RS
.B pdfsplit document.pdf -p 1,3,5-7,10- --prefix split
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success or help/version displayed.
.TP
.B 2
Input file not found.
.TP
.B 3
Error opening PDF.
.TP
.B 4
Empty PDF.
.TP
.B 5
Error creating output directory.
.TP
.B 6
Invalid page specification.
.SH AUTHOR
EdgeOfAssembly (haxbox2000@gmail.com)
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See LICENSE file.
